network: deduplicate swarm info for overlay driver (#18998)
docker/docs: content/network/drivers/overlay.md

containers. For information about overlay for Swarm services, see
[Manage Swarm service networks](../../engine/swarm/networking.md).

## Create an overlay network

Before you start, you must ensure that participating nodes can communicate over the network.
The following table lists ports that need to be open to each host participating in an overlay network:

| Ports                  | Description                                                                                                                                                          |
| :--------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `2377/tcp`             | The default Swarm control plane port, is configurable with [`docker swarm join --listen-addr`](../../engine/reference/commandline/swarm_join.md#--listen-addr-value) |
| `4789/udp`             | The default overlay traffic port, configurable with [`docker swarm init --data-path-addr`](../../engine/reference/commandline/swarm_init.md#data-path-port)          |

> | `7964/tcp`, `7964/udp` | Used for communication among nodes, not configurable                                                                                                                 |

Reviewer: 7964 -> 7946

in the same way that you can create user-defined `bridge` networks. Services
or containers can be connected to more than one network at a time. Services or
containers can only communicate across networks they're each connected to.

Overlay networks are often used to create a connection between Swarm services,
but you can also use it to connect standalone containers running on different
hosts. When using standalone containers, it's still recommended that you use
Swarm mode to establish a connection between the hosts. It's a lot easier set
up and maintain, compared to the alternative of running an external key-value
database for service discovery.

This page describes overlay networks in general, and when used with standalone
containers. For information about overlay for Swarm services, see
[Manage Swarm service networks](../../engine/swarm/networking.md).

## Create an overlay network

Before you start, you need the following ports open to traffic to and from each
Docker host participating in an overlay network:

- TCP port 2377 for cluster management communications
- TCP and UDP port 7946 for communication among nodes

> - UDP port 4789 for overlay network traffic

Reviewer 2: 2377/tcp is the default Swarm control plane port, and is configurable (`docker swarm join --listen-addr`). 4789/udp is the default overlay traffic port, and is also configurable (`docker swarm init --data-path-port`). Port 7946 is inexplicably hardcoded, though.

> To create an overlay network that other Docker hosts can attach to, run the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create an overlay network that containers on other Docker hosts can attach to, run the
```

> following command:

Reviewer 2: I'm a little worried that without the explanation as to what the `--attachable` flag does, users will cargo-cult pass it for all overlays they create even when they don't want the network to be attachable by standalone containers.

Without the `--attachable` option, only Swarm services can be connected to the overlay network. With it, standalone containers can be connected as well as Swarm services.

You can specify the IP address range, subnet, gateway, and other options. See
`docker network create --help` for details.

### Encrypt traffic on an overlay network

All swarm service management traffic is encrypted by default, using the
[AES algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Galois/Counter_Mode) in
GCM mode. Manager nodes in the swarm rotate the key used to encrypt gossip data
every 12 hours.
## Encrypt traffic on an overlay network

To encrypt application data as well, add `--opt encrypted` when creating the
overlay network. This enables IPSEC encryption at the level of the vxlan. This
encryption imposes a non-negligible performance penalty, so you should test this

> option before using it in production.

Reviewer 2: The specs of the encryption used (IPSec with AES-GCM cipher) is important information for users to decide whether it is suitable for their use case. And there is still a performance penalty that users should be aware of.

Reviewer: Just to check - "AES-GCM" doesn't appear in the new text here... was this duplicated info, so still mentioned somewhere else in the docs?

> **Warning**
>

> > Do not attach Windows hosts to encrypted overlay networks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Do not attach Windows containers to encrypted overlay networks.
```

>
> Overlay network encryption is not supported on Windows. If a Windows host
> attempts to connect to an encrypted overlay network, no error is detected but

> > the host can't communicate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> the container won't be able to communicate with Linux containers connected
> to the overlay and application data transmitted to other Windows containers
> on the overlay won't be encrypted.
```

{ .warning }

## Attach a container to an overlay network

Adding containers to an overlay network gives them the ability to communicate
with other containers without having to set up routing on the individual Docker

> daemon hosts. A prerequisite for doing this is that the hosts can discover each
> other, for example by using Swarm mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
daemon hosts. A prerequisite for doing this is that the hosts are joined to
the same Swarm.
```

To join an overlay network named `multi-host-network` with a `busybox`

> container:

Reviewer 2: That only works if the overlay is attachable.

```console
$ docker run --network multi-host-network busybox sh
```

## Container discovery

Publishing ports of a container on an overlay network opens the ports to other

> containers on the same network. Containers are discoverable using the container
> name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
containers on the same network. Containers are discoverable by doing a DNS lookup
using the container name.
```
